---
title: "leetcode 942"
date: 2019-03-25 14:18:44 -0400
categories: Algorithms Leetcode
---

## Python3, beats 100% intuitive solution (72ms)

>[Leetcode 942](https://leetcode.com/problems/di-string-match/discuss/339403/Python-beats-100-intuitive-solution)

**Complete algorithm**
```python
class Solution:
    def diStringMatch(self, S):
        perm = [0]*(len(S)+1)
        l, r = 0, len(S)
        for i in range(len(S)):
            if S[i] == 'D': perm[i] = r; r -= 1
            else: perm[i] = l; l += 1
        perm[-1] = l
        return perm
```

Appending at times is very useful method for dynamic changes

however, let's make an empty list before moving forward. By using this, we can save 

some time and work and nail the size of memory beforehand.

`perm = [0]*(len(S)+1)`


After that, let's keep track of two marks `l = 0` and `r = len(S)` which will be

used to distinguish items of the permutation list `perm`.

`l` mark will keep track of the "increasing" numbers,

while `r` will keep track of the "decreasing" numbers

So when you start iterating through the given `S` string,

I can handle the 'D' by signing `r` to the 

and let's not waste our work by putting both 'D' and 'I' into the conditional statement;

we can reduce that by considering just one and using the `else` statement for the other.

`l, r = 0, len(S)`


The central idea is seprating 'D' and 'I' with the marks assigned in the beginning

While itering through, when you face 'D', I can simply assign the value stored in `r` to the corresponding

spot of the `perm` list and decrease the r by 1 since that number is already used up.

By doing this, we won't violate the condition: *S[i] == "D", then A[i] > A[i+1]*

'I' will also be treated similarly. When facing 'I', we can just assign the value stored in `l`,

and decrease the `l` by 1.

```
for i in range(len(S)):
    if S[i] == 'D': perm[i] = r; r -= 1
    else: perm[i] = l; l += 1
```

Notice by doing this, none of the items in the list will have the same value in them.

But the crucial problem for this is that you can't cover the last item of the list, meaning that

the last item `perm[-1]` will be empty and left out.

Since the length of the answer list is 1 less than the command string(S) `len(S)`,

handling the last element by iterating with the other items in the list will cause an 'index error'.

So what we are going to the is just assigning the value of `l` to it. (assigning `r` is fine too)

This have a very specific and simple meaning to it: assign the leftover value to the last element.

Which means after all the process of assigning increased and decreased values to the `perm` list,

there must be one leftover number since the size of the list is 1 greater than the command string `S`

And we are going to take advantage of it.

`perm[-1] = l` (or `perm[-1] = r`)


**Time Complexity**
`O(N)` for iterating through `S`
`O(1)` for assigning the values
`O(1)` for operations for `r` and `l`

Total time complexity : `O(N)` (72ms)